Not if you had a chance to Showcase and revisit the search with stream
gang case study and show how easy it was to go from sequential to parallel streams
It's a good time to take a step back and look at the internals of parallel streams
Have a better understanding of how things work under the hood
I gave you a quick synopsis of this earlier this week
but now I'm really going to go into more detail and really look in great depth about how Carol Streams works
If it's really
really fast name
As we talked about earlier and earlier weeks
when we discussed sequential stream internals
one of the first and most important things to understand
is what aspects of the parallel stream framework
you can change and what aspects
You can't change
You just have to come to grips with the fact
you can't change everything and then that's by Design
There's a lot of reasons
Why the parallel streams framework is designed and implemented the way it is
and you might quibble with some of the design choices
but I think you'll find a practice
It's it's really quite quite good
especially considering you don't have to write it documented
maintain it
the bucket and someone
The first question of course is why do we care
Who cares
how I parallel streams Works
Shouldn't we just be happy
That it works so well
and in fact we've seen it
It's actually quite easy to to be parallel
So why do we do think some of the hood
Well
as you'll see very quickly
if you're just having fun
riding little demo program for teaching a class and it casually
it's probably not that important to know all the details internally
However
if you're trying to write performance critical applications
it's essential to understand how streams and parallel streams
work internally
because if you understand how it works you be more likely to use the right features in the right combinations
In order to get the right performance
that you need to meet your requirements
To start this discussion
just recall
There were three phases of a parallel stream
I'm not going to dwell on this
cuz we've covered it several times
But this sets up a discussion of what can change
what can't change
There's the splitting phase
where we use a splitter Raider to partition
The datastore stuff into multiple chunks is the apply phase where we independently process
These chunks in workers threads
and accounted for showing full Ellen
Finally have the combined phase
which joins the partial sub results and merge them together into a single reduced result
Now
it turns out that we can make some changes to splitting
we can make some changes to combining
but we're pretty much stuck with the way the apply phase works because there aren't many knobs for controlling The coming-forth Joint
Well
we'll see that
There's a few little simple knobs like influencing the number of threads or the 4th July pool
but you really can't control
for example
the order in which the processing takes place in parallel
that that's not something you really can control
So you got to come to grips with what you can control and then learn how to use those control
knobs effectively
to optimizing Junior code